*Major points* 
1. The paper assumes that all background stars are eclipsing binaries undergoing transit-like events, and therefore potentially capable of generating a false positive signal. This is an unrealistic assumption, and I think an unnecessary one. I appreciate that, as stated in section 5.2, it is not possible to know the details of individual contamination sources. However, as also stated in section 5.2, there are studies about the number and occurrence rates of eclipsing binaries. Could these have been used to assign eclipsing binary status to suitable fractions of the stars in the sample, allowing for a more realistic proportion of possible eclipsing binary contaminants in each window? Such an approach should be considered. 


2. The eclipse depth of the eclipsing binary appears in equation (10) and propagates forwards into the equations for statistical significance for a transit on a contaminant, and thus into the equations for efficiency of the extended mask and secondary mask flux methods. In section 2.4 the paper notes that the intrinsic eclipse depth is assumed to be the same for all contaminant eclipsing binaries. This seems like a very limiting assumption, and while I understand that it makes the study simpler to perform, I wonder whether it is limiting the study and strongly constraining the applicability of the results. Would the results change if a range of eclipse depths is present among the contaminating stars, or is only the mean eclipse depth relevant? This assumption that all eclipsing binaries have the same eclipse depth should be explained in more detail, including information about the justification for it, whether any other scenarios were considered, and how it limits the results that are presented. 

3. The paper misrepresents the process by which PLATO will validate its exoplanet candidates. On page 2, in the left-hand column, starting at line 50, it refers to PLATO relying heavily on an initial validation process performed onboard. There is no validation performed on-board the spacecraft; the centroid data and/or double-aperture photometry data are collected onboard, but the validation is performed on-ground as part of the exoplanet data processing pipeline. The paper then states that the initial PLATO strategy for detecting false positives consisted only of computing centroid shift measurements. This is incorrect; other methods for detecting false positives were considered right from the start. It is more correct to say that centroid shift measurements were part of the initial false positive detection strategy, but the only additional data from the spacecraft that were considered (beyond the basic photometry). Similarly, section 6.2 states that nominal centroids are the strategy envisaged for 5% of the P5 sample, which is incorrect; other methods will be employed, with the centroids providing an additional discriminatory ability for those 5% of the targets. Furthermore, the paper also states that that current strategy to detect false positives is to use centroid shifts and/or double-aperture photometry. This is stated in the introduction (page 2, right-hand column) and in Section 4 (page 6, left-hand column). While they will be important, these methods will form only part of the false positive identification strategy for the mission, which will also use a range of other techniques. The description of the role that centroids and double-aperture photometry play in candidate validation should be updated to more accurately represent both the history here, and what will be done.

4. Aside from the aforementioned assumptions regarding the eclipsing binary contaminants, the paper makes a number of other assumptions: a. The L1 pipeline has perfectly removed any systematics and background flux. This seems reasonable, given that the true performance of the pipeline in this respect cannot be evaluated until real data is available. b. There is no residual drift of stars across the CCD. This seems problematic to me; is ‘residual drift’ the drift remaining after correction? Will the drift vary throughout the field of view, and will the effectiveness of the correction be equally good across that field of view? c. When defining the equations for the centroid shifts, that there is no stellar variability. d. When assessing instrument performance, that each camera has the same set of PSFs. Won’t the optics, and thus the PSFs, of each camera vary slightly? The level of this variation will not be known until flight data is available, but on-ground testing data may provide some useful insights already and could be used to define or constrain some small random differences between simulated PSFs for each camera. These varied assumptions are not justified in the paper. Such justifications should be added.

5. The results presented in Section 7 are not sufficiently described or explained. a. In Figure 4b, why is the secondary mask equally efficient for the 6 camera and 24 camera cases at P magnitude 11.0? This is a notable outlier from the behaviour evident at the other magnitudes considered. b. I’m surprised that in Figure 4a, the 24 camera and 6 camera cases are so similar, and that for the secondary mask centroid the 6 camera case is sometimes more efficient. Why is this the case? c. Is the y-axis of Figure 5 the noise of the extended and nominal mask metrics, or the uncertainty in the metric? Per equation (39), this is the error in the absolute centroid shift, averaged over 1 hour and Nt cameras, which could be taken to be either. This should be clarified. 

6. It is not clear to me how the magnitude of the target stars is incorporated into the calculations performed, as it does not seem to be mentioned in the derivations worked though in sections 2 to 6. Table 2 shows the efficiencies determined across a magnitude range. For these values, I guess that the efficiency is determined for all target stars in this magnitude range, and the mean/median and standard deviation determined to give the values in the table. Is this correct? Whether it is or not, the steps by which the values in Table 2 were determined should be described. In Figure 4, the paper displays efficiencies at specific magnitudes. How is the magnitude used here? Presumably not all of the target stars are exactly the magnitudes plotted, so were they rounded? Or are these magnitude bins (as suggested by footnote 7), and if so, how are the bins defined? The steps by which the values plotted in Figure 4 were determined should be described. 

7. The discussion of the results in Section 8.1 is not sufficiently detailed and overstates the conclusions that can be drawn from Table 2. The paper states (section 8.1, page 13) that the secondary flux measurements are less efficient at detecting false positives than centroid measurements. However, the results in Table 2 show that this is not strictly correct. Secondary flux measurements are less efficient than nominal and extended centroid shift measurements, true, but their efficiency is equal to that of secondary centroid shift measurements, within uncertainties. One could conclude that they are even marginally more efficient than secondary centroid shift measurements. Similarly, the first sentence of section 8.2 states that centroid measurements are by far the most efficient method for detecting false positives. But this is only true of nominal mask centroid shifts and extended mask centroid shifts, which are equally efficient (within uncertainties) according to Table 2. Secondary mask centroid shifts, on the other hand, are no better than secondary flux measurements, as I noted above. The paper also states (Section 8.1, final paragraph, on page 13) that on average, the statistical significance of the secondary flux measurement is greater than the statistical significance of the centroid shift in the nominal mask (this is stated as an equality). No quantitative evidence is given to support this conclusion, as Table 2 presents efficiencies, and Figure 4 plots efficiencies. Support for the conclusion can be taken from Table D.1, but this presents the various significance values for only one star and its contaminants. This is not enough evidence to support the statement about the relationship of the average significances. Further discussion of the results is needed, with more quantitative support for the conclusions reached, and careful wording that more accurately describes the results. 

8. Presentation and discussion of the percentage of false positives detected by each metric, and the comparisons between them, is incomplete. There are five metrics being compared in this paper, giving 10 possible comparisons. But the set of bullet points in the right-hand column of page 13 gives only four comparisons. The secondary flux measurements, which the paper is proposing are the most effective metric, are not mentioned at all, which seems a significant omission. How do they compare to the other metrics in this context? Perhaps the paper is using “extended” in this section in the on-board software sense, as described in footnote 5? If so, this is unnecessarily confusing given that the rest of the paper has used “extended” to mean specifically one of the two double aperture approaches, and it obfuscates the results. Furthermore, the language of these bullet points could be improved as it is somewhat confusing as currently written. The current format is "% of false positives detected only by metric a but not by metric b". If the false positives are detectable 'only' by metric a then mentioning metric b is unnecessary. On the other hand, if the percentages are for false positives detected by metric a but not metric b, do the other metrics detect them or not? Section 8.2 should be updated to better present the comparison of false positive detection percentages between metrics. A table or pairwise matrix may be a better way to present these results, rather than a list of bullet points, and further discussion may be warranted. In addition, Footnote 5 should be removed, as it introduces unnecessary ambiguity, and the text updated (if necessary) to clarify the language used to discuss the results. Finally, the summary of the comparison results in the text should be checked for consistency against the full set of comparison results (currently it reads ~27% vs 28%+/-1.4%). 

9. Appendix A discusses the detectability of planets, but as with sections 8.1 and 8.2, the discussion is not sufficiently detailed and is imprecise in its language. Three classes of planets are considered, but these classes are not defined. What radii (or range of radii) are used for this analysis? ‘super-Earth’, in particular, has a number of different definitions in the literature. The last sentence of the section states that the results show that using 6 cameras is sufficient to detect super-Earths, but no evidence is provided to support this statement. Figure A1 shows the case of super-Earths observed with 24 cameras, not 6 cameras. 

 *Minor points* 
 
 I. The introduction references Kepler performing on-board photometry. Kepler did not do this; it downloaded pixel data for defined postage stamps around its targets. This statement should be removed, or updated to better match / explain the intended meaning. 
 
 II. In section 2.3, on page 3, in the last paragraph of the right-hand column, the paper references PLATO’s Level 3 data products consisting of the catalogue of confirmed planetary systems from P1. This is not quite correct, as the catalogue is not confined a priori to the P1 sample. This statement should be corrected.
 
  III. On page 2 the paper references double aperture photometry requiring 50% less CPU and telemetry than centroid shifts. Similar statements about the reduced CPU and telemetry consumption of double aperture photometry are present on page 13. The justification for these statements is not provided, nor is a citation given to support these statements. Such a justification or supporting citation should be added.
 
  IV. In section 2.4, equations (23) and (24) are referred to as corrected versions of equations (28) and (23) in Marchiori et al. (2019). What has been corrected for this paper, and why did it need to be corrected? These statements should be clarified. 
  
  V. In section 3.1, the paper defines the optimal extended mask as being an expansion of the nominal mask. The description of the size of this expansion is unclear, as it refers to surrounding the nominal mask by one pixel, but Figure 1b nicely illustrates the idea. This expansion by one pixel in all directions is described as the optimal definition, with reference made to minimising the increase in noise, but surely the truly optimal way in that case would be add just a small number of pixels covering the contaminants, rather than a full ring as shown in Figure 1b? This would have the benefit of not including pixels with minimal flux, this limiting the additional background contribution. What I think is missing here is an explanation of the process for determining the optimal size of the extended mask. Section 3.1 mentions a process of increasing the size of the extended mask by one more pixel and checking the impact on efficiency, with a note that this has been done before. Where has this been done, and by whom? Is this a reference to section 8.1 on page 13, where efficiency values are shown for the case of the extended mask considering just the most significant contaminant? Please support this statement with further explanation, a cross-reference to section 8.1, or a suitable citation. 
  
  VI. In section 3.1, on page 5, right-hand column, the paper states that if there is a deeper transit in the light curve from the extended mask than in the light curve from the nominal mask, then this means that the signal in the target is due to one of the contaminants. Can this be concluded definitively? Or in this situation is it just very probably that the signal is due to one of the contaminants, but there could still be other explanations?
  
  VII. When calculating SPRk to identify the most significant contaminant for defining the secondary mask, to what precision is this calculated? If two contaminants in the imagettes have equal SPRk, which is used to define the secondary mask? 
  
  VIII. In Equation (32), where do the factors of 10-6 come from?
  
   IX. Can the secondary mask pixels overlap with the nominal mask pixels? This point is not clear from the paper, and the example in Figure 1 is just one possible configuration. For example, if the most significant contaminant in the Figure 1 field was the star located at (2.5, 1.5), would the secondary mask method still work, and would it still be an improvement over the extended mask? In such cases of overlapping nominal and secondary masks, would differential analysis have merit?
  
   X. Equation (39) is described as the average centroid measurement over a duration of one hour and a given number of cameras. But the equation itself seems to be for the uncertainty in the averaged centroid. This should be checked and either the text or the equation updated if necessary. 
  
  XI. Why is magnitude 21 the faint cutoff for the stellar sample used in this work? Does this correspond to the sensitivity limit of PLATO? Is it the magnitude at which stars stop being relevant as potential contaminants? 
  
  XII. In section 6.1.1, the three conditions used in the computation of NextFP are not sufficiently well-defined in the text. At the start of the left-hand column of page 9. First, what is the threshold used for determining that the transit depth difference is statistically significant? Per equation (45) it seems to be 3-sigma, but this should be stated explicitly. Secondly, at what precision are the statistical significances and thresholds (eta terms) measured? This affects how quickly the threshold is considered to be passed. These conditions should be expanded on in the text. Similar comments apply to the conditions in sections 6.1.2, 6.2.1 and 6.2.2.
  
   XIII. In section 7 and Appendix B, the P magnitude values are referenced as belonging to the target star. This is clear for the nominal mask and extended mask cases, but for the secondary mask case, is it still the magnitude of the target that is relevant, or the magnitude of the most significant contaminant (i.e. the one used to position the secondary mask)? This should be clarified in the text, and also in the appropriate figure captions and/or axis labels. 
   
   XIV. The relevance of the discussion of the number of unique mask shapes is not clear to me and should be stated in the paper. Is the point to show that the increase in possible mask configurations introduced by the secondary mask does not reach the limit allowed by the size of the on-board library? 
  
  *Editorials* 
  
   The paper should refer to “asteroseismology” rather than “seismic techniques”. • In the opening paragraph of the introduction, the paper states that almost 5000 exoplanets have been discovered. This is an underestimate; depending on which catalogue you check, the number is either nearly 6000 or nearly 7500. Given the differences between the criteria that different catalogues used for including an exoplanet, and rate at which the number of known exoplanets is increasing, it is important to state when and where your numbers are from. Please check your number, state your source, and give the date that you accessed it. • In the introduction, on page 1, right-hand column, the paper states that “PLATO will increase the detection of Earth-like planets”. This statement is ambiguous. What is the intended meaning here. Is that a) PLATO will increase the number of such planets detected, b) that the detection rate will be increased, or c) that the ability to detect such planets will be improved? Please clarify the wording here. • In the introduction, on page 2, the paper refers to “transit surveys” and “space missions”. I would point out that Kepler and TESS are transit surveys, they just happen to be in space. Reference to “ground-based transit surveys” and “space-based transit surveys” would be better. • In the introduction, page 2, left-hand column, the paper defined validation as making a transit signal meet one or more criteria that indicate likely planetary statement. This sounds as though the transit signal is being manipulated to make it meet the criteria, when really the transit signal is being assessed against those criteria. This statement should be reworded to make the meaning clearer. • In the introduction, page 2, left-hand column, the paper notes that the size of the P5 sample will be ~122500 stars. Is this for one long pointing or two long pointings? • In section 2.1, Marchiori et al. (2019) is used as the reference for PLATO’s quarterly rotation. Would one of the Rauer et al. papers not be a more suitable reference here? • In section 2.4, on page 4 (left-hand column), the paper states that transit depth is the fraction of the star surface that is covered during the transit. This is incorrect, but I think is just imprecise wording. Transit depth is the fraction of the area of the stellar disc that is covered, not the fraction of the star’s surface area. • In section 4, on page 6, left-hand column, the paper states that centroid measurements are weighted by the aperture. This statement should be clarified; weighted how, and why? • A citation should be added for the microscanning process referenced at the end of section 5.3. • I found sections 6.2.1, 6.2.2, and 6.2.3 somewhat confusing in terms of which contaminants were considered in each case. Figure 1 could be used to give some examples here. • The percentages given for the number of P5 targets with certain numbers of contaminants are not completely consistent between the abstract (22% of stars have 2+ false positives) and section 7 (21%). Moreover, the percentages given in section 7 only add up to 96%. Figure 3 suggests that both of these are rounding errors, but this should be checked and the abstract and section 7 made consistent. • Why is the efficiency for the secondary centroid shift measurement in Table 2 quoted to a different precision than the other values (which are all quoted to the same precision)? This should be consistent